memo: graphrag (#421)
dwarvesf/playground: AI/Building LLM system/graphrag.md

## What is Knowledge Graph?

A knowledge graph is an organized representation of real-world entities and their relationships. It is typically stored in a graph database, which natively stores the relationships between data entities. Entities in a knowledge graph can represent objects, events, situations, or concepts. Knowledge graphs contain 2 key chracteristics: 
 - **Nodes**: Represent entities such as people, places, organizations, events, or concepts,... Each node can have properties or attributes that describe it. For example, A node with type Person might have properties like name, age, and occupation.
 - **Edges**: Represent the relationships or connections between entities. Edges can have types and properties as well. For example, an edge with type FRIEND_OF might have a property called "since", indicating when the friendship began.

![Knowledge Graph](assets/graphrag-knowledge-graph.webp)

## Why Knowledge Graph is used in RAG?

> Naive RAG systems built with keyword or similarity search-based retrieval fail in complex queries that require reasoning. Suppose user asks a query: "Who directed the sci-fi movie where the lead actor was also in The Revenant?", a standard RAG system will retrieve documents about The Revenant, then find information about cast and crew members, but it will fail identiy the lead actor, Leo DiCaprio who starred in other movies but not existed in the query to retrieve document. However, taking advantage of knowledge graph, the ideally process will be: identify the lead actor of The Revenant, then find other movies he starred in, then find the sci-fi movie which meet ciriteria.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Naive RAG systems built with keyword or similarity search-based retrieval fail in complex queries that require reasoning. Suppose user asks a query: "Who directed the sci-fi movie where the lead actor was also in The Revenant?", a standard RAG system will retrieve documents about The Revenant, then find information about cast and crew members, but it will fail to identify the lead actor, Leo DiCaprio who starred in other movies but not existed in the query to retrieve document. However, taking advantage of knowledge graph, the ideally process will be: identify the lead actor of The Revenant, then find other movies he starred in, then find the sci-fi movie which meet criteria.
```

Following above diagrams, the user query will be extracted entities. Then, these entities will be semantic-searched though knowledge graph to find relevant informations. Then it flow to some filter and sorting steps to get the final answer.

 - **Global Query**: Global query method generates answers by searching over all AI-generated community reports in a map-reduce fashion. It is well-suited for reasoning about holistic questions related to the whole data corpus by leveraging the community summaries. For example: "Who is the most famous author in the corpus?".

![GraphRAG Global Query](assets/graphrag-global-query.webp)

In this mode, the collections of communiites will be used to generate response to user query in a map-reduce manner. At the Map step, community reports are segmented into text chunks of pre-defined size. Each text chunk is then used to produce an intermediate response containing a list of point, each of which is accompanied by a numerical rating indicating the importance of the point. And in Reduce step, the intermediate responses will be filtered and re-ranking and then aggregrated to produce the final answer.

## Conclusion

> GraphRAG is ideal for tackling complex tasks such as multi-hop reasoning and answering comprehensive questions that require linking disparate pieces of information. However, using a lot of LLM calls in both index and query stage make it expensive and should be consider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GraphRAG is ideal for tackling complex tasks such as multi-hop reasoning and answering comprehensive questions that require linking disparate pieces of information. However, using a lot of LLM calls in both index and query stage make it expensive and should be in consideration.
```
